In this course, we're talking
about the Windows Registry.
In this module, module 2,
we're going to talk
about the structure
of the Windows Registry.
The layout of the Registry.
The Registry is
broken into hives,
keys, sub-keys, values, and data.
The data within the
Registry can be
stored in several
different formats.
We can have binary data,
string data, text data,
and also BLOB data.
BLOB stands for
binary large object.
This slide shows us
what the live Registry
looks like if we open it
up in Registry Editor.
You can see at the top there,
we have the HKEY, the handle key.
We have HKEY local machine.
Underneath that, we have
the hives and you can
see there the SAM,
security, software,
and system file,
along with hardware
driver and components.
Beneath that, we have our keys.
Those are sub-folders
of the hives.
Beneath the keys,
we have sub-keys.
Over the right-hand pane,
you can see we have
values and we have data.
That is the basic structure
of the Windows Registry.
Now, the hive files that make up
the Registry can be divided
into two types of classes.
They're either
system-related files
or user-related files.
Now, the system-related files
are going to consist of the SAM,
security, software, and
AmCache hive files.
The user-related files
are going to be the NT
User.dat and the User Class.dat.
Now, the system files will
dictate system-wide settings,
and the user files
are going to be
specific to that individual user.
Every user on the system
will have their own NT
User.dat hive and
User Class.dat hive.
We are going to need
specialized tools to view
the Windows Registry files.
When your computer boots up,
the hive files get
pulled into memory.
They are represented by
these HKs or handled keys.
We're going to have
HKEY local machine,
HKEY classes root,
HKEY current config,
HKEY users, and
HKEY current user.
We're talking about
live Registry.
This is what it would look
like in Registry Editor.
You can see we have classes root,
the handle key up at the top.
Now, certain handle keys are
only going to be found in
the live running Registry.
These are keys like
HKEY current user,
hardware, and HKEY
current config.
HKEY current user refers to
the currently logged-on user.
That User NT.dat and User
Class.dat get pulled into
memory and they contain
all that user's specific
settings and activities.
Hardware is only going to be
found on the library system
and this covers Bios and
current hardware configuration.
Hardware is going to have
information concerning
the Bios and the current
hardware configuration.
Then we have HKEY current config.
This is the current
system configuration
relating mainly to software.
Just be aware that on
a live running system,
the SAM hive file and all of
its sub-keys are not going
to be able to be accessed.
They are disabled.
The security sub-key
is also disabled.
Looking at it through RegEditor,
we won't be able to see what
is contained in those hives.
Now, some of our non-live
Registry files of interests.
We're going to take
a look at the SAM,
system, security, software
and the AmCache file.
These are system-related files.
We're also going to
talk about the NT
User.dat and User Class.dat.
The non-line Registry, as
seen using Registry browser,
is what this slide depicts.
The Registry browser
does depict it pretty
much the same as RegEdit does.
But with Registry browser,
we can drill down into the
keys and see the data within.
It also helps us
translate some of
this data under the values,
value data, and then
the bottom pane
data but it is laid out same way.
We have the handle
key at the top,
we have the hives,
then we have the keys,
and then we have the sub-keys.
In our next module,
we're going to talk
about the location of
the Registry files
within a forensic image.
In this walk-through,
we are going to
locate and export the
Windows Registry files.
The items we will need for
this Registry walk-through are
the Windows 10 vmdk
and FTK imager.
Once you launch FTK imager,
go ahead and load
the Windows 10 vmdk.
If you forgot how to do that,
it would be File,
Add evidence item.
We're looking for an image
file and you click "Next".
Browse to where the image file
is saved on your computer.
Simply click "Open" and
the file will load.
Once it's loaded, go
ahead and expand it.
You'll see three partitions.
We're going to be
looking at partition
2 because that is where
the operating system is.
We expand partition 2 and we're
going to expand the NTFS.
We're going to expand root.
Once we expand root,
we're going to go to
Windows and expand windows.
We're going to scroll
down to system 32.
We're going to expand system 32.
After we expand system 32,
we're going to locate
the config folder.
We locate the config folder,
we're going to highlight it,
and then we're going to
look in the file list pane.
Here are all the files
inside the config folder.
We're looking for the SAM file,
security file, software file,
and the system file.
Once we locate these files,
we're going to go ahead and
right-click and we're
going to export the files.
Choose a location on your
computer to export them to.
I'm going to choose
my desktop and make
a new folder and call
it Win 10 Registry.
Then we'll go ahead and export
those files and it tells you
that it copy the
file successfully.
Now, we're in Windows,
we're going to scroll back up.
We'll close up some
of these folders
so we can navigate easier.
We'll close up system 32.
When we look at the
Windows folder.
Under the Windows folder,
we're going to expand
the folder app compact.
Underneath the Windows folder,
we're going to expand
the folder app compact.
We're going to highlight
the program's folder
underneath the app compact,
and we see our AmCache hive.
We're going to go ahead and
select the AmCache hive,
right-click export files.
We're going to go
back to the folder
on our desktop or
wherever you saved it,
where you put your
Registry files.
We're going to select that folder
Win 10 Registry and click "Okay".
Now, we're done in
the Windows folder,
so we'll go ahead
and close that up.
Now, we're going to expand the
Users folder and we're
going to click on
the Ivan user and we're
going to select the
NT.dat file from
the file list pane.
We're going to right-click
Export Files and we'll choose
that same file Win 10
Registry and click "Okay",
then we're going to
select the Ivan user
or whichever user you prefer,
but let's stay with
the Ivan user.
We're going to check app data.
After we expand Ivan,
we're going to expand app data.
We're going to expand local.
After we expand local,
we're going to expand Microsoft.
We're going to scroll
down, expand Window.
We're going to highlight
the Windows folder.
Once you highlight the
Windows folder and again,
that's app data under
the user app data,
local, Microsoft highlight
the Windows folder.
We're going to look over in
the right-hand file list pane,
and we see our User Class.dat.
We're going to go ahead
and highlight the User
Class.dat, right-click
Export File.
We're going to choose our same
folder or Win 10 Registry.
I'm going to click "Okay".
Now, we've exported
all our registry files
from within the file
system in Windows.
That is the end of
the walk-through.